=head1 NAME

virt-sysprep - Reset, unconfigure or customize a virtual machine so clones can be made

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 virt-sysprep [--colors] [--colours] [-c URI] [--connect URI]
    [-n] [--dry-run] [--enable OPERATIONS] [--operations OPERATIONS]
    [--echo-keys] [--format raw|qcow2] [--key SELECTOR]
    [--keys-from-stdin] [--mount-options] [-q] [--quiet]
    [--network] [--no-network] [-v] [--verbose] [--wrap] [-x]
    -d domname | -a disk.img [-a disk.img ...]

  virt-sysprep --list-operations

  virt-sysprep --version

  virt-sysprep -V

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Virt-sysprep can reset or unconfigure a virtual machine so that clones
can be made from it, or to prepare a template from which clones can be
made later on.  Steps in this process include removing SSH host keys,
removing persistent network MAC configuration, and removing user
accounts.  Virt-sysprep can also customize a virtual machine, for
instance by adding SSH keys, users or logos.  Each step can be enabled
or disabled as required.

Virt-sysprep modifies the guest or disk image I<in place>.  The guest
must be shut down.  If you want to preserve the existing contents of
the guest, I<you must snapshot, copy or clone the disk first>.

You do I<not> need to run virt-sysprep as root.  In fact we'd
generally recommend that you don't.  The time you might want to run it
as root is when you need root in order to access the disk image, but
even in this case it would be better to change the permissions on the
disk image to be writable as the non-root user running virt-sysprep.

"Sysprep" stands for "system preparation" tool.  The name comes from
the Microsoft program F<sysprep.exe> which is used to unconfigure
Windows machines in preparation for cloning them.  (Virt-sysprep does
not work on Microsoft Windows guests.)

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<--help>

Display brief help.

=item B<-a> file

=item B<--add> file

Add I<file> which should be a disk image from a virtual machine.

The format of the disk image is auto-detected.  To override this and
force a particular format use the I<--format> option.

=item B<-a> URI

=item B<--add> URI

Add a remote disk.  The URI format is compatible with guestfish.
See L<guestfish(1)/ADDING REMOTE STORAGE>.

=item B<--colors>

=item B<--colours>

Use ANSI colour sequences to colourize messages.  This is the default
when the output is a tty.  If the output of the program is redirected
to a file, ANSI colour sequences are disabled unless you use this
option.

=item B<-c> URI

=item B<--connect> URI

If using libvirt, connect to the given I<URI>.  If omitted, then we
connect to the default libvirt hypervisor.

If you specify guest block devices directly (I<-a>), then libvirt is
not used at all.

=item B<-d> guest

=item B<--domain> guest

Add all the disks from the named libvirt guest.  Domain UUIDs can be
used instead of names.

=item B<-n>

=item B<--dry-run>

Perform a read-only "dry run" on the guest.  This runs the sysprep
operation, but throws away any changes to the disk at the end.

=item B<--enable> operations

Choose which sysprep operations to perform.  Give a comma-separated
list of operations, for example:

 --enable ssh-hostkeys,udev-persistent-net

would enable ONLY C<ssh-hostkeys> and C<udev-persistent-net> operations.

If the I<--enable> option is not given, then we default to trying most
sysprep operations (see I<--list-operations> to show which are
enabled).

Regardless of the I<--enable> option, sysprep operations are skipped
for some guest types.

Use I<--list-operations> to list operations supported by a particular
version of virt-sysprep.

See L</OPERATIONS> below for a list and an explanation of each
operation.

=item B<--operation> operations

=item B<--operations> operations

Choose which sysprep operations to perform.  Give a comma-separated
list of operations, for example:

 --operations ssh-hostkeys,udev-persistent-net

would enable ONLY C<ssh-hostkeys> and C<udev-persistent-net> operations.

I<--operations> allows you to enable and disable any operation, including
the default ones (which would be tried when specifying neither
I<--operations> nor I<--enable>) and all the available ones; prepending
a C<-> in front of an operation name removes it from the list of enabled
operations, while the meta-names C<defaults> and C<all> represent
respectively the operations enabled by default and all the available ones.
For example:

 --operations firewall-rules,defaults,-tmp-files

would enable the C<firewall-rules> operation (regardless whether it is enabled by
default), all the default ones, and disable the C<tmp-files> operation.

I<--operations> can be specified multiple times; the first time the set
of enabled operations is empty, while any further I<--operations> affects
the operations enabled so far.

If the I<--operations> option is not given, then we default to trying most
sysprep operations (see I<--list-operations> to show which are
enabled).

Regardless of the I<--operations> option, sysprep operations are skipped
for some guest types.

Use I<--list-operations> to list operations supported by a particular
version of virt-sysprep.

See L</OPERATIONS> below for a list and an explanation of each
operation.

=item B<--echo-keys>

When prompting for keys and passphrases, virt-sysprep normally turns
echoing off so you cannot see what you are typing.  If you are not
worried about Tempest attacks and there is no one else in the room
you can specify this flag to see what you are typing.

=item B<--format> raw|qcow2|..

=item B<--format> auto

The default for the I<-a> option is to auto-detect the format of the
disk image.  Using this forces the disk format for I<-a> options which
follow on the command line.  Using I<--format auto> switches back to
auto-detection for subsequent I<-a> options.

For example:

 virt-sysprep --format raw -a disk.img

forces raw format (no auto-detection) for F<disk.img>.

 virt-sysprep --format raw -a disk.img --format auto -a another.img

forces raw format (no auto-detection) for F<disk.img> and reverts to
auto-detection for F<another.img>.

If you have untrusted raw-format guest disk images, you should use
this option to specify the disk format.  This avoids a possible
security problem with malicious guests (CVE-2010-3851).

__INCLUDE:key-option.pod__

__INCLUDE:keys-from-stdin-option.pod__

=item B<--list-operations>

List the operations supported by the virt-sysprep program.

These are listed one per line, with one or more single-space-separated
fields, eg:

 $ virt-sysprep --list-operations
 bash-history * Remove the bash history in the guest
 cron-spool * Remove user at-jobs and cron-jobs
 dhcp-client-state * Remove DHCP client leases
 dhcp-server-state * Remove DHCP server leases
 [etc]

The first field is the operation name, which can be supplied
to I<--enable>.  The second field is a C<*> character if the
operation is enabled by default or blank if not.  Subsequent
fields on the same line are the description of the operation.

Before libguestfs 1.17.33 only the first (operation name) field was
shown and all operations were enabled by default.

=item B<--mount-options> mp:opts[;mp:opts;...]

Set the mount options used when libguestfs opens the disk image.  Note
this has no effect on the guest.  It is used when opening certain
guests such as ones using the UFS (BSD) filesystem.

Use a semicolon-separated list of C<mountpoint:options> pairs.
You may need to quote this list to protect it from the shell.

For example:

 --mount-options "/:noatime"

will mount the root directory with C<notime>.  This example:

 --mount-options "/:noatime;/var:rw,nodiratime"

will do the same, plus mount F</var> with C<rw,nodiratime>.

=item B<-q>

=item B<--quiet>

Don’t print log messages.

To enable detailed logging of individual file operations, use I<-x>.

=item B<--network>

=item B<--no-network>

Enable or disable network access from the guest during the installation.

In virt-sysprep, the network is I<disabled> by default.  You must use
I<--network> to enable it, in order that options such as I<--install>
or I<--update> will work.

L<virt-builder(1)> has more information about the security advantages
of disabling the network.

=item B<-v>

=item B<--verbose>

Enable verbose messages for debugging.

=item B<-V>

=item B<--version>

Display version number and exit.

=item B<--wrap>

Wrap error, warning, and informative messages.  This is the default
when the output is a tty.  If the output of the program is redirected
to a file, wrapping is disabled unless you use this option.

=item B<-x>

Enable tracing of libguestfs API calls.

__EXTRA_OPTIONS__

=back

=head1 OPERATIONS

If the I<--enable>/I<--operations> option is I<not> given,
then most sysprep operations are enabled.

Use C<virt-sysprep --list-operations> to list all operations for your
virt-sysprep binary.  The ones which are enabled by default are marked
with a C<*> character.  Regardless of the I<--enable>/I<--operations>
options, sysprep operations are skipped for some guest types.

Operations can be individually enabled using the
I<--enable>/I<--operations> options.
Use a comma-separated list, for example:

 virt-sysprep --operations ssh-hostkeys,udev-persistent-net [etc..]

Future versions of virt-sysprep may add more operations.  If you are
using virt-sysprep and want predictable behaviour, specify only the
operations that you want to have enabled.

C<*> = enabled by default when no I<--enable>/I<--operations> option
is given.

__OPERATIONS__

=head1 SECURITY

Virtual machines that employ full disk encryption I<internally to the
guest> should not be considered for cloning and distribution, as it
provides multiple parties with the same internal volume key, enabling
any one such party to decrypt all the other clones.  Refer to the L<LUKS
FAQ|https://gitlab.com/cryptsetup/cryptsetup/-/blob/main/FAQ.md> for
details.

Although virt-sysprep removes some sensitive information from the
guest, it does not pretend to remove all of it.  You should examine
the L</OPERATIONS> above and the guest afterwards.

Sensitive files are simply removed.  The data they contained may still
exist on the disk, easily recovered with a hex editor or undelete
tool.  The I<--scrub> option can be used to scrub files instead of
just deleting them.  L<virt-sparsify(1)> is another way to remove this
content.  See also the L<scrub(1)> command to get rid of deleted
content in directory entries and inodes.

=head2 Random seed

I<(This section applies to Linux guests only)>

For supported guests, virt-sysprep writes a few bytes of randomness
from the host into the guest’s random seed file.

If this is just done once and the guest is cloned from the same
template, then each guest will start with the same entropy, and things
like SSH host keys and TCP sequence numbers may be predictable.

Therefore you should arrange to add more randomness I<after> cloning
from a template too, which can be done by enabling just the customize
module:

 cp template.img newguest.img
 virt-sysprep --enable customize -a newguest.img

=head1 NOTES

=head2 SELinux

For guests which make use of SELinux, special handling for them might
be needed when using operations which create new files or alter
existing ones.

For further details, see L<virt-builder(1)/SELINUX>.

=head2 Windows E<ge> 8

Windows 8 "fast startup" can prevent virt-sysprep from working.
See L<guestfs(3)/WINDOWS HIBERNATION AND WINDOWS 8 FAST STARTUP>.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

This program returns 0 on success, or 1 if there was an error.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

=over 4

=item C<VIRT_TOOLS_DATA_DIR>

This can point to the directory containing data files used for Windows
firstboot installation.

Normally you do not need to set this.  If not set, a compiled-in
default will be used (something like F</usr/share/virt-tools>).

This directory may contain the following files:

=over 4

=item F<rhsrvany.exe>

This is the RHSrvAny Windows binary, used to install a "firstboot"
script in Windows guests.  It is required if you intend to use the
I<--firstboot> or I<--firstboot-command> options with Windows guests.

See also: C<https://github.com/rwmjones/rhsrvany>

=item F<pvvxsvc.exe>

This is a Windows binary shipped with SUSE VMDP, used to install a "firstboot"
script in Windows guests.  It is required if you intend to use the
I<--firstboot> or I<--firstboot-command> options with Windows guests.

=back

=back

For other environment variables, see L<guestfs(3)/ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<guestfs(3)>,
L<guestfish(1)>,
L<virt-builder(1)>,
L<virt-clone(1)>,
L<virt-customize(1)>,
L<virt-rescue(1)>,
L<virt-resize(1)>,
L<virt-sparsify(1)>,
L<virsh(1)>,
L<lvcreate(8)>,
L<qemu-img(1)>,
L<scrub(1)>,
L<http://libguestfs.org/>,
L<http://libvirt.org/>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Richard W.M. Jones L<http://people.redhat.com/~rjones/>

Wanlong Gao, Fujitsu Ltd.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2011-2025 Red Hat Inc.

Copyright (C) 2012 Fujitsu Ltd.
