=head1 NAME

guestfs-tools-release-notes - guestfs tools release Notes

=head1 RELEASE NOTES FOR GUESTFS TOOLS 1.56

These are the release notes for guestfs tools stable release 1.56.
This describes the major changes since 1.54.

Guestfs tools 1.56.0 was released on B<XXX July 2026>.

=begin comment

=head2 Security

=end comment

=head2 virt-builder

Fix building of C<debian-13> template (pulsarrush).

Use HTTPS to fetch templates (Xiang Hua Chen).

=head2 virt-customize

Fix SELinux relabelling of "split /usr" guests.

Fix Windows Update and C<pnputil /e> command in Windows guests after
virtio-win drivers are injected (Cole Robinson).

When injecting virtio-win drivers in Windows guests, install
blnsvr.exe (the balloon server) (Cole Robinson).

Fix installation of Windows Vista and Windows 2008 Server R1 drivers
(Cole Robinson).

Remove the RHEL subscription-manager feature (Cole Robinson).

In firstboot scripts, print Windows C<%USERNAME%> and C<%USERDOMAIN%>
which can be used to diagnose failures caused by insufficient
permissions.

Windows firstboot scripts may now exit with code 250, meaning that no
reboot is required after the script.  The next script in sequence runs
immediately (Srihari Parimi).

On Windows, a sentinel file is created after all firstboot scripts
have run, which may be used to indicate that firstboot has completed.

=head2 virt-inspector

Add C<E<lt>windows_group_policy/E<gt>> if Windows Group Policy was
detected inside a guest.

New C<E<lt>classE<gt>> element used to indicate the category of
applications, such as antivirus.

For XFS filesystems, new C<E<lt>type version="4|5"E<gt>> to indicate
XFSv4 or XFSv5.  (This is also displayed in L<virt-filesystems(1)>
output.)

Add support for Kylin, NeoKylin and Anolis Linux (grass lu).

=head2 virt-sysprep

Add a new operation to clean zsh history files (Fazle Arefin).

=head2 Common changes

Some bash completion scripts that were no longer used by guestfs-tools
were removed.  Also new C<./configure --with-bash-completion> and
C<./configure --with-bash-completion-dir> options were added
(Christopher Byrne).

All tools taking a LUKS key file now allow a binary file to be used.

=head2 Documentation

Use qemu option I<-cpu max> in documentation about running
virt-builder guests.

All information related to firstboot scripts was moved to and
consolidated in L<virt-customize(1)/FIRSTBOOT> (Srihari Parimi).

Removed a lot of obsolete documentation in the L<virt-sysprep(1)> man
page.

=head2 Build changes

Fixes for OCaml 5.

Add github CI (Cole Robinson).

Remove C<AM_GNU_GETTEXT> macro and replace it with simpler C<LIBINTL>
checks (Cole Robinson).

Build Bison-based parser with I<-Wno-yacc> to reduce yacc
compatibility warnings that we don't care about (Cole Robinson).

Various build warnings were cleaned up (Cole Robinson).

C<CFLAGS> is now prepended to the default, allowing default flags to
be overridden.  In addition I<-fPIC> is added to the default flags
(Cole Robinson).

Many memory leaks identified by Claude Code were fixed (shivanayak).

=head2 Internals

OCaml quoted string literals (C<{|..|}>) are used throughout the code
to make it easier to include verbatim scripts, code, regexps etc.

The sources for L<virt-cat(1)>, L<virt-filesystems(1)>,
L<virt-log(1)>, L<virt-ls(1)> and L<virt-tail(1)> previously used a
single source directory (F<cat/>) for no particular reason.  These
were moved to separate directories.

=head2 Bugs fixed

=begin comment

./bugs-in-changelog.sh v1.54.0..

=end comment

=over 4



=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<http://libguestfs.org/>

=head1 AUTHORS

=begin comment

git shortlog -s v1.54.0..

=end comment

=over 4



=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2026 Red Hat Inc.
