=head1 NAME

guestfs-tools-release-notes - guestfs tools release Notes

=head1 RELEASE NOTES FOR GUESTFS TOOLS 1.50

These are the release notes for guestfs tools stable release 1.50.
This describes the major changes since 1.48.

Guestfs tools 1.50.0 was released on B<7 February 2023>.

=head2 Security

=over 4

=item CVE-2022-2211

L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2100862>

A buffer overflow was found in the I<--key> option of several guestfs
tools.  For more information on this low severity bug see the bug
report above (Laszlo Ersek).

=back

=head2 New virt-drivers tool

This new tool can examine a disk image to determine:

=over 4

=item *

Whether it uses BIOS or UEFI for booting

=item *

What bootloader it uses (Linux only)

=item *

What kernels may be chosen at boot time (Linux only)

=item *

What device drivers (kernel modules) are installed

=back

This is useful for determining how (or if) a guest can boot on a
virtualization hypervisor.

=head2 virt-customize

I<--selinux-relabel> is now the default for SELinux guests.  You no
longer need to specify this flag.  In the rare case where you don't
want to relabel a guest after customizing it, you can use
I<--no-selinux-relabel>.  Note this is not needed for non-SELinux
guests, it will do the right thing automatically (Laszlo Ersek).

New I<--inject-qemu-ga> and I<--inject-virtio-win> operations which
respectively inject QEMU Guest Agent and virtio-win drivers into
Windows guests.

Rocky Linux guests are now supported (thanks Harry Benson).

=head2 virt-inspector

Virt-inspector now outputs the new E<lt>build_idE<gt> element
containing the guest build ID, if using libguestfs E<ge> 1.50.

=head2 virt-sysprep

New C<lvm-system-devices> operation for removing LVM2's
F<system.devices> file.  This avoids certain problems when cloning a
VM (Laszlo Ersek).

Virt-sysprep supports guests using LUKS logical volumes on top of LVM
(Laszlo Ersek).

=head2 Common changes

All the tools supporting the I<--key> option can now use Clevis/Tang
to decrypt full disk encryption using this network-based scheme
(Laszlo Ersek).

=head2 Build changes

B<Note> that libguestfs now requires minimum OCaml 4.04.  It will not
compile on RHEL 6.

B<Note> that libosinfo is a new required dependency.

OCaml 4.14 is now supported.

C<./configure --disable-ocaml> and C<./configure --disable-perl> now
disable the OCaml- and Perl-based tools respectively (thanks Simon
Walter).

Experimental support for compiling on macOS.

When running C<make check-valgrind>, Valgrind logs are no longer
written to separate files under F<tmp/>.  Instead the output is
written to the normal F<I<test-name>.log> file.

=begin comment

=head2 Internals

=end comment

=head2 Bugs fixed

=begin comment

https_proxy= ./bugs-in-changelog.sh v1.48.0..

=end comment

=over 4

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2133443>

RFE: Support Rocky Linux in virt-customize

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2106286>

virt-sysprep: make an effort to support LUKS on LV

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2089748>

Removal of "--selinux-relabel" option breaks existing scripts

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2075718>

Having to use "--selinux-relabel" is not intuitive given Red Hat products default to selinux enabled.

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2072493>

[RFE] Request to add lvm system.devices cleanup operation to virt-sysprep

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2059545>

[RHEL 9.0][Nutanix] lvm partition "home" will lost with SCSI disk either in the new cloned VM or restored from a snapshot

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2028764>

Install the qemu-guest-agent package during the conversion process

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1809453>

[RFE] Add support for LUKS encrypted disks with Clevis & Tang

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1554735>

RFE: customize --selinux-relabel should be the default, with --no-selinux-relabel used to opt out

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<http://libguestfs.org/>

=head1 AUTHORS

=begin comment

git shortlog -s v1.48.0..

=end comment

=over 4

=item Laszlo Ersek

=item Richard W.M. Jones

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2025 Red Hat Inc.
