=head1 NAME

guestfs-tools-release-notes - guestfs tools release Notes

=head1 RELEASE NOTES FOR GUESTFS TOOLS 1.52

These are the release notes for guestfs tools stable release 1.52.
This describes the major changes since 1.50.

Guestfs tools 1.52.0 was released on B<5 January 2024>.

=begin comment

=head2 Security

=end comment

=head2 virt-dib was removed

virt-dib, a tool that built disk images using diskimage-builder
descriptions has been removed.  It only supported an older version of
the diskimage-builder metadata.  See also:
L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1910039>

=head2 virt-builder

L<virt-builder(1)> now prints better error messages when a specific
URL cannot be downloaded.

=head2 virt-builder-repository

Fix GPG repository signing (thanks Allard Berends).

=head2 virt-customize

New L<virt-customize(1)> I<--chown> and I<--tar-in> options.  (Also
available in virt-builder and virt-sysprep.)

=head2 virt-diff

L<virt-diff(1)> no longer considers C<st_dev> and C<st_ino> fields,
which means that guests where a file has moved across a mountpoint but
is otherwise identical (size, path, etc) will not show up as a
difference.

=head2 virt-drivers

L<virt-drivers(1)> a tool which looks at the device drivers needed by
a guest, can now look up vendor and device names using the PCI and USB
IDs databases.

=head2 Common changes

The common I<--key> option now recognizes LVM names like
F</dev/mapper/rhel_bootp--73--75--123-root> (Laszlo Ersek).

The I<--key> option also supports a new S<I<--key all:...>> selector
to try the same key on all devices.

=head2 Build changes

Support for OCaml 5, and OCaml E<ge> 4.07 is now the minimum (thanks
Guillaume Munch-Maccagnoni, Jerry James, Josh Berdine, Jürgen Hötzel,
Vincent Laviron).

Fix compatibility issues with libxml2 2.12.

=head2 Internals

Fix an off-by-one error which caused very rare crashes in some of the
virt tools.

=head2 Bugs fixed

=begin comment

https_proxy= ./bugs-in-changelog.sh v1.50.0..

=end comment

=over 4

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2175703>

virt-v2v failed to inspect RHEL9.2 guest due to kernel-core /
kernel-modules-core subpackage split

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2168506>

RFE: Virt-v2v should recognize partition names like '/dev/mapper/rhel
boot--73--75--123-root' in related keys option

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1910039>

virt-dib doesn't work with newer diskimage-builder version on RHEL8

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<http://libguestfs.org/>

=head1 AUTHORS

=begin comment

git shortlog -s v1.50.0..

=end comment

=over 4

=item Jürgen Hötzel

=item Laszlo Ersek

=item Richard W.M. Jones

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2024 Red Hat Inc.
