=head1 NAME

guestfs-tools-release-notes - guestfs tools release Notes

=head1 RELEASE NOTES FOR GUESTFS TOOLS 1.48

These are the release notes for guestfs tools stable release 1.48.
This describes the major changes since 1.46.

Guestfs tools 1.48.0 was released on B<14 March 2022>.

=head2 virt-builder

New templates: C<alma-8.5>, C<centosstream-8>, C<debian-11>,
C<fedora-34>, C<fedora-34> (armv7l), C<fedora-35> C<fedora-35>
(aarch64)
(Lars Kaiser, Stef Walter).

New fedora-34 (armv7l) template is built to use UEFI.

=head2 virt-customize

The yescrypt password hashing method is now supported
(Björn Esser).

=head2 virt-inspector

Recognise C<kalilinux>, C<kylin> and C<msdos> operating systems /
Linux distros (Laszlo Ersek).

Inspection of LUKS encrypted filesystems placed directly on logical
volumes is now supported, but you will need libguestfs E<ge> 1.48
(Laszlo Ersek).

=head2 virt-sysprep

Add a new default operation called C<net-nmconn> which removes
NetworkManager connection profiles (Laszlo Ersek).

=head2 virt-win-reg

C<virt-win-reg --version> now prints both the version of guestfs tools
and the libguestfs library that it is linked with.

=head2 Common changes

All OCaml tools now suppress line wrapping when output is redirected
to a file (to make it easier to parse logs with external programs).
There is a new I<--wrap> option which can be used to reenable line
wrapping to files if needed (Laszlo Ersek).

=head2 Build changes

Multiple fixes to make it easier to build against either the system
installed libguestfs or a locally built libguestfs (Laszlo Ersek).

Fix multiple OCaml warnings.  Remove some deprecated OCaml features.
We now require OCaml E<ge> 4.04.

Multiple fixes to valgrind support for glibc 2.35, OCaml 4.13 and
libvirt 7.7.  C<make check-valgrind> should now work.

=head2 Internals

New OCaml C<On_exit> module (from libguestfs-common) is used instead
of custom on-exit and signal handling.

=head2 Bugs fixed

=over 4

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2003706>

virt-install armv7 guest on aarch64 host doesn't work, no LPAE support and no PCI devices

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1995391>

RFE: virt-inspector fails to detect the distro and applications on Kylin-Desktop-V10 image

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1980922>

virt-sysprep doesn't cleanup NetworkManager connection files

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1961160>

The version is incorrect when running 'virt-win-reg --version'

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1820221>

Log lines wrapping make log parsing difficult

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1658126>

Virt-v2v can't convert guest using LUKS-on-LV

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1633328>

Armv7 guest fails to boot with qemu-3.0.0-1

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<http://libguestfs.org/>

=head1 AUTHORS

=begin comment

git shortlog -s v1.46.0..

=end comment

=over 4

=item Björn Esser

=item Lars Kaiser

=item Laszlo Ersek

=item Richard W.M. Jones

=item Stef Walter

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2022 Red Hat Inc.
