=head1 NAME

guestfs-tools-release-notes - guestfs tools release Notes

=head1 RELEASE NOTES FOR GUESTFS TOOLS 1.54

These are the release notes for guestfs tools stable release 1.54.
This describes the major changes since 1.52.

Guestfs tools 1.54.0 was released on B<21st May 2025>.

=begin comment

=head2 Security

=end comment

=head2 New repository location

The upstream git repository is now:
L<https://github.com/libguestfs/guestfs-tools>

=head2 virt-customize

New I<--inject-blnsvr> which can be used to inject the Windows memory
balloon server into guests.

I<--inject-virtio-win> no longer supports the C<osinfo> method (use
libosinfo for virtio-win driver information), as it is no longer
maintained and had got quite out of date.  The default method using
virtio-win directory names is more reliable and preferred in all
instances (Cole Robinson).

=head2 virt-drivers

Handle large output of the L<rpm(1)> command when listing drivers in
some SUSE guests.

=head2 virt-make-fs

Use the L<file(1)> I<-S> option to disable seccomp protection when we
also use the L<file(1)> I<-z> option, as the two options are
incompatible and cause crashes on some Linux distros.

=head2 virt-resize

Correct the calculation of the target disk.  In some cases with the
I<--resize> option it was not calculated correctly and partition
creation on the target would fail with a confusing error.

We now use stderr consistently for debug messages.

=head2 Common changes

Add support for LoongArch (liuxiang from Loongson).

Fix OCaml bytecode builds (Jerry James, Ilya Leoshkevich).

Allow C<nbd+unix://> URIs in I<-a> parameters to several tools.

Add a git-publish profile (Kashyap Chamarthy).

=head2 Build changes

json-c is now required.  This replaces Jansson which was previously
used for parsing JSON input files.

OCaml E<ge> 4.08 is now required.

OCaml oUnit is no longer used.

We now assume that C<__attribute__((cleanup))> always works.  This
requires gcc or Clang.

Add support for GCC 14 and 15.

Some deprecated autoconf macros are no longer used.

Fix some issues when building on macOS (Mohamed Akram).

Fix compatibility with GNU gettext 0.25.

=head2 Internals

The tests were modified to use a set of common functions and remove
use of the weird C<$TEST_FUNCTIONS> macro, similar to how we do it in
nbdkit.

Some internal OCaml List and String functions that we used have been
replaced by ones from the OCaml stdlib, reducing code maintenance.

=head2 Bugs fixed

=begin comment

./bugs-in-changelog.sh v1.52.0..

=end comment

=over 4

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-32099>

Harden grub2-mkconfig to avoid overwriting /boot/efi/EFI/redhat/grub.cfg

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-67560>

Improve the error info when virt-customize options are used for incompatible guest OS [rhel-9.7]

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-67565>

Improve the error info when virt-customize options are used for incompatible guest OS [rhel-10.1]

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-77989>

CentOS 9 Migration from VMWare to Openshift Virt fails [rhel-9.6]

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-80214>

virt-drivers fails on opensuse guest if kernel-source is installed

=item L<https://github.com/libguestfs/guestfs-tools/issues/16>

Issues building on macOS

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<http://libguestfs.org/>

=head1 AUTHORS

=begin comment

git shortlog -s v1.52.0..

=end comment

=over 4

=item Jerry James

=item Kashyap Chamarthy

=item Richard W.M. Jones

=item liuxiang

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2025 Red Hat Inc.
